beautiful full day at Lindley farm in
Sandy Utah and I've been working with
Robin son Dean who's the owner of the
farm and we've been working very hard on
this horse to get him so that he gets a
good counter so that she can really work
on her flying changes it's really
important to have a good canter before
you even start the changes so the horses
in a in a frame that he can really begin
to balance himself over his feet and be
supple and forward it's very important
when you do your changes so Robin how's
he been going has he been been good in
this Kendra now and the changes are
coming better I think if you get the
check the canter really good then the
changes are there right that's how it is
with him this is an older horse and he
has been an event horse so he's now got
a career as an dressage horse and what
we did with him what we've been working
on very hard Robin's been working on
very hard is to get him really supple in
his canter and really listening so that
he doesn't take it in his own mind to do
the changes and what have you so one of
the first exercises we do for that is to
do a very tight serpentine all on the
same lead so he does one loop in regular
counter one loop and counter counter all
the way down from the side to the center
line so perhaps if you like to go out
and try doing that I'll get myself out
of the way and see what happens
okay and if you think he's wound up I
mean II see if he can do that and I'll
stand over here on the centerline I
don't want you going beyond me okay
we're going on that side
so come on the left leaning first
and this is important to make sure that
he stays obedient he doesn't think about
changing when you go to the counter
counter loop it's a very very good
suppling exercise and he's coming
forward nicely into your bridle and
she's making the loop and there
shouldn't be no change in the canter
he's got to be supple as he makes and
you just make as many loops as you can
ride him a little forward when you get
to the counter canter so he doesn't suck
back and he's actually doing this very
nicely and you could come back again you
bit squashed him on the last turn but
that's okay but you can see the horse
really being obedient and coming forward
he gets a little bit stiff sometimes in
the counter counter and robbing after
this I would go into an extended canter
across the diagonal so now you've got
him nicely balanced and come around come
from F and do an extended cancer across
and you might want to try change at the
end now bring him back collect him first
and then try your change well done well
done and let him walk
give it time that was good it was clean
and that's the difficult one no I was
really good
and I think that you know having him
supple and then sending him forward like
that then he's ready to any is balanced
and ready enough to do it where'd you
two come on the big circle and send him
out in the canter and then bring him
back into a little sink do three small
circles within the circle very collected
canter but very jumping and you want to
come on the other lead for this and yeah
I can do it round me no because you run
into me do it down there yeah so 20
meter circle with three ten meter
circles inside and I want you to make a
big distinction between going Alps and
coming back so send him on medium
counter and make him sit down and
collect into a little circle lean back a
bit and really kick him around the
little circle there we go there we go
and then again send him out make him
longer all over and back and little
circle kick him kick him he's got to
jump he's got to jump good and again out
and back good try to bring him back more
on the outside rein now Robin go out and
then cans are on the spot go out now
counter on the spot as if you're gonna
do a little circle now go out again okay
and then come back canter on the spot
and go out again
and come back and counter on the spot
and then out again
very good
and then keep them a little collected
that happens good now if you go all the
way down the long side and then do a
small circle at the end which is an
extension of what we were doing here now
medium canter a little circle at end
good if you do that then the horse gets
the idea he has to come back at the end
and do that again go down the long side
medium cover the ground good now bring
him back and do a little circle really
collectin okay now on the next side I'd
like to go hard first from K to X and
then leg yield back to the track without
changing not lead so I have first
encounter keep him balanced and now leg
yield back and he doesn't change
and the same thing again on the next
side so collect him bring him forward
and forward and forward and forward okay
that hind that needs to come over a bit
good and then back the other way outside
rains outside rain have him in you're
outside right very good yeah now keep
him in that canter on the circle stay in
that cancer and when we begin to work
this sort of cancer we can begin to work
for changes all right and bring him back
to a walk good super
you